# DraftKings_DFS
In the last ten years, daily fantasy sports (DFS) have exploded in popularity. In traditional fantasy formats, each season begins with a draft where you, and the rest of your league picks their rosters for the rest of the season. Besides waiver wires where unowned players can be picked up each week, you maintain the same relative roster throughout the year. In contrast, in the DFS format, players are assigned a salary for the given slate and you are free to pick from the entire pool of players each week so long as your final roster is under the given salary cap. Your team then participates in a tournament against every other player that has entered, and a certain percentage of lineups receive a payout relative to how their lineup finishes. This has in turn attracted a large following from sports fans to investors (gamblers depending on who you ask) alike. To succeed in daily fantasy football, accurate projections are a must. However, despite there being free and subscription-based projections on the internet, the majority of these projections are lazily calculated. This is due to the format of DFS itself. If hundreds to thousands of players are generating their lineups off of the same projections, then it is unlikely that any individual will differentiate themselves enough to win money. Therefore, it is in the best interest of the people developing these projections to keep their most accurate projections to themselves. This is because the profit margin is higher to use them, rather than provide them for a fee. Therefore, the goal of this project is to collect data for daily fantasy football, train a model, generate predictions, and compare test error to major sports websites such as ESPN.

The data for this project will be gathered from dailyfantasydata.com and will include models for QBs, RBs, WRs, and TEs. The predictor variables will differ for each position, however they will all follow the same general format: average season statistics, average RedZone statistics, Vegas game odds, and opposing defense fantasy points allowed corresponding to the respective position. This comes out to approximately 30 predictors per position (more than I can explain here). Data collection began prior to week 7 (Oct. 18-22nd). This will provide six weeks of testing prior to project presentation. This corresponds to a training set of approximately 150 QB, 350 RB, 500 WR, and 150 TE observations for the final week. This dataset will provide both benefits and concerns. The major benefit of this dataset is the presence of real testing data. The model can be trained each week and then tested on the upcoming week’s real scores. This also allows those test observations to then be added to the training model for the next week allowing our observation sample size to grow. In fact, part of this project will include an analysis of how test error is affected by the increased sample size throughout the season. The concerns of this project are the high variance in fantasy scores and the multicollinearity of predictor variables. This suggests that a less flexible model capable of handling collinearity should be the ideal fit. Since we will be calculating actual projected scores using observed outcomes, this a supervised regression problem. We are also less concerned with how each predictor affects the outcome as history tells that no one predictor means a high score. With a little preliminary work already underway on this project and the given set of problems, partial least squares are currently expected to provide the best model due to its more restrictive nature and ability to handle multicollinear predictors. However, other regression approaches will also be considered. 
